welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting
it's september 28 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've done in the last week and
plan to do
and discuss any other items that
someone might have um so i start with
myself
again news from the rust side of things
so the major rust multi-hatched thing
that i was talking about in the past few
weeks
finally got merged and it was kind of a
big refactor
is now kind of back to what it
originally was on the first refactor and
um but in the end so now if you want to
integrate it into the current rast cd
um it's really nice because it's really
just
really small changes which is i think a
good sign
that yeah i got things correct
um so this brings us a bit closer to
merging upstream into rust multihash
and what i currently work on worked on
today was
although this refactor landed now
everything is
allocated and what you need to do is if
you define your own
code table with hashes you need to
define
how big actually the stake location is
and we decided that we make it
explicit so you really have to set some
value
but it could still be that you use a
hasher which produces a
bigger digit and clearly then your stuff
will just panic
um and the plan is to have better error
reporting saying on compile time hey
um your one of your hashes
would want to allocate more than you
have specified so
um you might want to increase it um the
reason why we don't do it automatically
is that
all this sadly in rust
it's working without types so it's
purely on syntax which is a bit scary
um but i expect that people just
if they use it the normal way everything
will be fine
and they don't even notice that it's
only a syntax thing in the type thing
and yeah at least it should get smooth
things out for people
um implementing things and the other
thing that needs to
happen before we can merge into upstream
last multi-display three
support that finally got kicked off by a
community member
and so i'm only doing the reviews but
it's slowly getting there
um yeah um
other things is that next i look into
some awesome stuff
um i will get into more detail about
this next week i guess
when i know more um
next on my list is danielle
cool so i continued with hampt
i spent quite a bit of time trying to
update the schema and the code
generation
with rods schema in the hashmap document
so that's done now uh we also discussed
a bunch of ways that we could simplify
the schema which were mostly
things that rod already had in mind um
but which could be nice to just you know
finish up
before i write a lot more code and
you know getting some agreement on those
was also nice
i also got nerd sniped into looking into
a
json panic that lotus got a week ago or
so
and it turns out like i was very
confused by this because i started
looking into it
around wednesday last week initially i
thought it was just a json package bug
but i was digging more into it today and
it's gotten to the point where i think
there's
a language bug somewhere because methods
are not being promoted consistently
which is pretty scary because the lotus
project is
hiding one method and replacing it with
another method
but then that's just not working the
replacement is not working as expected
so i fouled a spec buck if anyone wants
to look at that
i also helped with the reviews on go
miracle dag um
so i think i follow most of what rod is
doing there uh so hopefully my review is
helpful
and finally it seems like everybody is
okay
with me updating adopting the go multi
codec
repo and just replacing it with a bunch
of code generated
go constants so i'll do that soonish now
that i've
i've got sort of like the okay from
everybody
and that's it
thanks and next is eric i was kind of
all over the place this week
um answering a lot of questions um i'm
sort of building up a backlog of things
that i now have discovered we do need a
little bit more
api documentation on especially as well
as our usual need for
doc stocks a little review of
the deck pb stuff that rob's working on
and i'm really glad that he's working on
that
i had to do some work in the goa ipld
repos this week to start adding resource
budgets
to codex this is because we want these
things to be
resistant to denial of service attacks
even in the case of
fairly maliciously formed inputs so we
started getting some
fussing in on things and it is
discovering things where we need to
sanity check more values make sure
allocations are reasonably bounded and
stuff like this
so i've started some pr's that do
keep running budgets even and so
that's pretty exciting getting those
things to be totally
consistent is interesting
but at this point there's some
accounting that's reasonably consistent
and some other things that are willing
to let you like
run ahead of the budget by a fixed
amount and i think this will
in total pretty much end up okay um
it could be more pure but it should do
um i've been doing a little work this
week with
will on describing some more of the
filecoin systems using ipld and ipld
schemas via his project
which is the stative project and that is
being really darn exciting um i don't
know if he'll want to chime in more with
this but basically it's generating a lot
of experience points
and we'll probably continue to do so um
we're finding that we can describe a lot
of file coin structures unsurprisingly
with ipld schemas um
because a lot of them were originally
drafted in the same headspace as the
schema language so like
it stands to reason a couple of things
have evolved in interesting ways that
are a little bit trickier to describe
and a couple things just fall in the
corners of
parts of the schema cogent system that i
haven't implemented yet because they're
the less
frequently used features so getting lots
of to-do lists out of that
um we've had some really interesting
reflections on how
developers might want to make custom
codecs sometimes
um there are a couple of interesting
little
spinny bits in filecoin where they
have the the the serialization which is
the binary protocol
like it has a certain specified
structure
that's going to be encoded in dagsebor
all the hashing for the trees is dag sea
boar so like that's clearly the way that
the thing is serialized
um but then part of the goal of this
state if project that was working on is
have human readable presentations of
these things so that we can like create
visual diffs and
most of the time it is perfectly
reasonable to just
swap the codec the multicode that's kind
of the point of them so you just like
stop using dijkstra
or start using json instead and then you
get
reasonably difficult stuff
um there's a couple of cases where the
filecoin project had already made some
other choices where some structures are
supposed to be
jsonned in a custom way and this is
not generally how we would suggest a
project to do this if it's doing
new work in the ipld universe because
it's
it's maybe even the opposite way which
is you've got things that have
a string representation that is what you
would use for instance because they're
used as map keys everywhere
and in json you need strings as your map
keys and so that's what you would expect
but in cbore you can use a bytes
much more compact representation and so
they do
and so are we going to say that this is
bytes based on the sebor encoding which
is our canonical encoding
um but then if i want a json i probably
want the string and not
non-printable unicode map keys um
so so saying that you know we have the
same
underlying data but with sort of a
string representation which is probably
the best you're going to do in json
and a more compact binary representation
when you're going to seabor
is not something that fits super nicely
yeah um i was also thinking about the
weird shenanigans going on with the
address field which
seemed to require custom but there's
also we're also looking at the
byte keys and maps situation again and
addresses
and the keys in maps everywhere and it's
that same thing
yep yep and so then figuring out how to
pretty print those is like
oof um it's just unclear what
should be done there and the usual
just replace sigma with json codec it
doesn't quite
it doesn't feel great it works but it
doesn't
anyway so we'll have more to report on
that in the future
i hope um yep that's that's all i'll say
about that
um i wrote a new document recently
about map ordering a piece of our docs
and specifications for the whole project
that we really need to nail down
um i've launched this as a guest so
there's a link
in the group chat here in the
the document that we'll post to the team
repo later
i want to mention briefly that i'm
posting this as a guest again and
i'm doing this because i'm finding it to
be an effective way to get things done
but i want to also introspect on that
out loud for a moment because i'm not
thrilled about the fact i'm finding that
a good way to get things done
we really need to hammer out a way for
landing stuff reliably
i'm publishing stuff as gifts because
it's hard for me to lose track of them
and easy for me to link them and
i hope that i'm able to take gists and
ram them through
review limbo in some fashion later
but we we need to develop a process for
landing dock stuff at a consistent pace
with some sort of cadence because it's
really hard right now
um that's almost it um i'm supporting
daniel a little bit on the hamp stuff
and i've done a new issue that's writing
up the
remaining road map to getting
self-hosting code gen
doing cogent of the types that describe
schema so that we can use those types to
drive cogen
that's a decently long road but i think
i broke down all the steps an issue now
so that's the first step to getting
started
that's about it
[Applause]
thanks next one is rod
excuse me oh man i'll be glad when this
moves
by an hour i think that's next week i'm
ending daylight saving so yeah
um okay i said last week
i was going to uh escape dag ppe land
and i completely did not escape tag pb
land that's
pretty much all i did last week but i
was deep in it i feel like i have
mastered it but i won't be making any
commitments and i'm not going to be
escaping it this week because
there could be some tidy up to do um
so i went deeper into the decoding
and identified three separate ways that
you can
vary the bytes and still get
valid dag pb and you can represent the
same data in
different forms and these combined could
give you
infinite variation because of the way
that they stack up
and this is because pb is really
designed for protocols
it's not designed for content addressing
like everything else we do
this is and this connects to stuff that
michael's been talking about too it's
just
it's not a it's just like a convenient
way of representing things in binary not
a way of doing it consistently or
canonically
so in pb the decoders
will accept out of order fields even
though the
pb schema tells you the order
they just accept whatever order they
that they come in and we'll build it up
however you like
they'll also accept repeated fields so
if it receives the same
same field with different bytes it'll
say oh okay
and just overwrite what it had before
and not complain or
anything it's completely silent um and
then it'll also accept extraneous bytes
that are valid pb but
not valid for the schema that you've
presented so it'll just skip over them
and say hey this looks like protocol
buffs but uh protobox but i uh
i don't know what it is and uh i'm gonna
ignore it
uh in there is a nice mechanism in go
they go
um protobuf koji and stuff for
collecting that stuff
and attaching it to part of the
structure so you can validate that
in go at least
[Music]
so i implemented the super strict
decoder for js
and it's in the jsjp library i
um i'm still interested interested to
see what it does with
the real world data out there because
there's a lot of
tag pb in the wild but
you know income encoders are good the
encoders are all very good they'll do
what they're supposed to
it's just the decoders that are flexible
so unless there's a particularly bad
encoder out there in the wild somewhere
this should be fine
um but this is this this implements a
one-way
one-to-one this is how it has to be on
the way in and out
um i revisited the spec pr again i think
that it's ready for landing as of
yesterday
uh i wouldn't mind a couple eyes but
otherwise if i don't get any more
reviews i'm going to land it
the i put in some
more clarity about the schema and the
constraints
and after eric's input which i thought
was quite good
um the links field is now
not optional it always must be there
even if it's empty
and the argument for that was because
you can't differentiate between
an empty links weight rate and a
a missing links array in the binary
format um making it optional introduces
another state the cardinality that
um you have to deal with and that's
there is some
ergonomics there as a programmer that um
can be annoying because then you
you you as the person interacting with
this object
need to do the check does this thing
exist uh
okay then i'll look in it but if you
make it
not optional and make it always there
then you can take for granted that it
exists and say well i don't need to
check for it
to exist if this this codec is
implemented correctly it will always be
there
um and so that's that's in the spec now
and that's
in the codec the js codec anyway
so when you construct one of these
things you always must have that array
and when they
come out of binary form and they decode
it's always there so it's just always
there um and that
this prepare method in javascript is
there to help you with that as well so
you don't have to
throw these links or links arrays out
manually if you
have a use case where that doesn't make
sense which is
a lot of places like making an empty
array is not something you normally do
[Music]
and then i put some additional notes in
the spec for around strictness of
decoding so these things that i've
detailed above i
i wrote them into the spec and saying
that these are these are shoulds they're
not musts but they're shoulds
um and they're not must because it's not
it's like
you don't this is not how you normally
deal with protobuf you don't normally
write your own decoder
um but if you're in a position to do so
then you should
make sure it strictly does these things
um and so and we've got that in
javascript now and i did a go
version as well so there's a go dag pb
repo in my
github that mirrors the javascript
one and it has all the strictness in the
decoding it has the
everything cleanly in the encoder and it
also tries
to deal with this data model
representation side as well where
the thing you give it must be of the
right shape um
that this is just the low level portion
of it
it's like a drop in replacement for
don't go murkle dag um
at least the protobuf version of the
protobuf portion of go merkeldag
so it could drop into ipld prime proto
or we could make a new ipld prime proto
um that has this stuff and i
i'm interested in um i it's still fuzzy
to me what the
the builder interface is when you have a
custom codec
in ipld prime and and hannah never
fleshed that out with ipld prime proto
because
that use case was more about pulling the
data out to you to use
selectors over it and so i i don't
really know what it looks like when
you've got a codec that is very strict
about the forms that it accepts what
your builders end up looking like when
how you export assemblers from that
thing
that is completely fuzzy to me that and
i wouldn't mind understanding that
because
this same thing comes up with all of the
other codecs that we haven't implemented
like
um bitcoin and git and all the rest of
these things where
you the shapes are have to be particular
you can't just
freeform build these dynamic things no
you can only build them in this very
narrow way
what does that look like in iple prime i
would love to know
not necessarily because i want to
implement something but
i keep on hearing that when i look at
this code and maybe i should try and
implement that
um but i'm not gonna
hold my i'm not gonna um hold myself to
that but that could be somewhere where i
go this week just to
have a look uh the other thing was i
gave a talk at the end of the week uh
speakeasy.js about it was titled content
address data structures
um and i decided to back right up to the
beginning because there was a bunch of
talks including michael's um
at speakeasy.js that just went straight
into
uh content addressability and um
and you know even the guys doing hyper
core and
um uh the what's the browser
beaker browser these guys just don't
jump straight into content
addressability and data structures and
let's talk about b trees and that's you
know do distributed
data structures and it's like i feel
sorry for the audience
because mostly this stuff is not that
well socialized in our industry
it's it's sort of we're a little bit
fringe still
even though this is straightforward when
you
try when you delve into it so my talk
was aimed at the
beginner level stuff and so i covered
content addressing hashing
and then just move really quickly into
how do we use this to build
data structures that have this this
superpower of linking
so i'm not super happy with how the talk
actually went mainly because i was
really tired
but i was gonna extract that talk from
that thing and put it up
uh as a separate video um and i have the
slides of that if anyone wants to take
them
and use them and um improve on them
i wouldn't mind trying to improve on
this myself if i have opportunities to
iterate on it but
um i thought it the the sequence worked
out quite well
and that's me thanks
uh next is chris hey so that's
interesting ron i'm glad that you're
you posted that video i wanted to come
listen to your presentation but i
had could at that time but i guess i'll
leave with my last thing on yours i've
been
evangelizing the heck out of ipld
and content visual storage in the
healthcare
medical imaging community and it's tough
i mean you're right
this is still like very fringe things
and
you know my challenge is to try to
figure out how to communicate this in a
way
that um
you know it leads them because there's
no way you can go in an hour and like
do a brand up on someone they just like
get it unless you're like super genius
material you know it's just this is time
but i am making good success and i uh
just just so you guys are curious like
got some really strong interest from my
people
at microsoft and other like major health
systems like kaiser permanente
i don't know if maybe in the europe you
don't know who they are but
some pretty big players that think this
is like a good idea so
um it's uh it'll take a while but i i
have been doing that
and it's a good success so far um
in terms of my day job i did
finally begin uh working again last week
um
and so working on a java js crossing
spike
and it was pr frustratingly slow
progress
um just trying to figure out the p2p
stuff and it was really hindered by my
lack of go
fluency and uh the library you know the
all the libraries are there so i can
read go code
but i can't necessarily find the code
i'm looking for sometimes
amongst everything else but uh at the
end of last week i did
actually successfully get a javascript
requester connected to go ipfs
graphsync okay and the responder
connecting to go ipfs
graphsync get test app and then them
talking to each other so at least i have
kind of like the basic
the pdp connection things working and
just for those
you know why was that so difficult
because it really shouldn't have been
well
the pdp decided to change the default
encryption provider from secio to noise
and i just didn't know this and so i was
getting all sorts of weird encryption
errors i wasn't expecting because
like one thing was using the an older
version with the with the original secio
default
and then my code is using the newer one
with noise default or something like
that
and then also uh there was a
undocumented thing in grassland spec
about
framing of the actual messages so
apparently it prefixes the size and
message of the bar ends
in the in the stream and so i found an
issue on that i'm going to update that
uh or i'll update the spec
repo with this and other changes i find
i think i think the graphs inspect could
use a little bit of love
as it's written right now so uh i'll try
i'll do
i won't say overhaul but i'll do a
bigger update
later on um currently working through
so i'm not quite all the way weeds on
the p2p right now um there's some kind
of weird
streaming issue that using it
pipe and family that i spoke with
um might go about and have a new
strategy to deal with that and i'm also
planning to use your new dag
pb library rod so
i i just just know that is coming but
i'm sure everything will just work first
time um
and i'm hoping to get the spike done
earlier this week either tomorrow maybe
wednesday
and i'm gonna start refactoring that
code into library uh do some kind of
quick
integration with js ipfs to allow um
the browser extension guys to like go
forward
and then finish the rest of the
functionality um
uh following that so that is my update
thanks and next is michael
yeah um yeah so new doc's site is up
um the main website earl is now
redirecting to it so that's all
done um i worked with gozala to land his
big js multi-format refactor
that actually went pretty well
the api is really nice it looks really
nice the implementation
is is not how i would have done it but
like you know it's
i think it's a lot nicer for typescript
people so whatever
um and worker likes that um
and yeah so that that was that um the
main thing that i want to talk about and
rod kind of hinted at this um
it's just the the situation with
formats like our codecs and the formats
in general um
conversations with rod and a few other
people last week particularly the one
with
raul um in lit p2p they just want to
send some messages
but they are signing those messages and
they may hash them at some point and so
even though they're not putting links in
them and they don't need dag features
like ipld usually provides they do have
they're going to end up with a lot of
the same kind of hash consistency
concerns that we have
um and and trying to advocate like what
should they do
it was very clear that like we don't
have the thing
they would want to use um and we need
like a much simpler format for them to
use for some simple case like this
and so here's my thinking and i'll i'll
just kind of
bring it to some people and they can
tell me what they think but um
as we look at how these are actually
being implemented
and adopted um the way that we adopt and
use this technology is
just not the way that most consumers use
it um
we're trying to create libraries and
data structures
and a blockchain for storage and a
network for storage
that is like agnostic of what people are
doing and how they produce the data
so we we live in this this world where
we have to create the stack
where all of these different choices are
options um
and we end up with like you know we're
getting to the point where we have
really nice abstractions for working
with all this stuff
but in practice most applications are
working with
one type of data with all these choices
as constants not
not as variables and it's just
significantly simpler
for them um to
basically implement the protocols just
in line um and if you look at a lot of
our protocols
they're really nice and they're getting
adopted this way because they're so
simple
and and we don't really we've actually
like learned just not to worry about
them doing this right like
um a lot of people you know produce
multi-format stuff
and they just sort of you know they just
stick buffers together
and stick binary bits together and
prefix things and like hey it works and
it's really obvious and like we're not
worried about them messing that up or
writing bad data
um and as we see the codecs get adopted
like if you look through filecoin and
like how filepoint is adopting it and
like we just heard about a bunch of
extra things
and filecoin a bunch of extra things in
bagpv that like you know you
you can do and that people are doing in
the wild where they have these
implementations where they're moving
outside of the data model they're not
like
they're they're not picking up all the
hash guarantees that we have in dag c
board they're not really producing day
support data frankly um
that's just like not what's happening
with multi-formats and it's not how you
would
really want to design a resilient
protocol
if you kind of unwind everything
we've been coming at this from the point
of view of like it would be better to
build on an existing format
and then not really inspecting why that
might be and normally the reason why you
want to
work with an existing format is that
there's a bunch of libraries already and
a bunch of people already know about it
and there's a bunch of mind share and so
you get to bootstrap on top of that
ecosystem and not write a new format
but since since our number one concern
are these hash consistent round trips
that jumps to the top of our stack and
we don't want to make any other
trade-offs for that
and so the way that we implement that on
an existing format is a library
so we're not really writing a protocol
like i
i really don't feel like the way that
it's being adapted
and the way that we're asking people to
adopt like doug seabor is a protocol
it's like a library like we wrote a
bunch of libraries that we need people
to use because it's really easy to [ __ ]
this up
and so like don't write it yourself
don't write a partial implementation of
just the things that you need
like if you need to serialize just a
list of integers i'm sorry you need to
take this whole library to do that
um and that's not going to be resilient
to the ecosystem that we're trying to
build like we should expect that people
are going to keep doing what they've
been doing so far
and doing partial implementations of
oneness implementations and what we
probably need actually is a format
that's resilient to that
not one where there's an existing
ecosystem that we thought would be a
benefit but it's actually our number one
problem
because when people just grab seymour
libraries and do things with them they
tend to write bad data because we
literally need them to not do that
um so anyway
in an afternoon i wrote a really simple
format um
and i'm glad that it didn't take very
long because it should be really simple
to implement because then that means
that people won't [ __ ] it up
um and it looks a lot like
multi-formats for the ipld data model
there's just sort of you know typing
prefixes in front of data
um and that's just you know it's just
turtles all the way down in terms of
the collections um and i've been working
with with folker now on
on what to do about floats there's still
like a lot of questions there and
there's going to be some more documents
and stuff and we'll work that out but
one of the things here is that um
i want to get the implementation fully
tested in javascript and
and get uh folker happy with it and what
the rust implementation might look like
um and then i want everyone else to look
at it and consider
implementing it um just so we can make
sure that it actually is really easy to
implement that it is really resist
resilient to implement especially
partially implement um
so that we can still design to that um
and what i really want to have is just
like i wanted to be able to point in a
dag format
and say if you're doing a simple
encoding here's
here's what you should use and if you're
just serializing a list of integers you
can just serialize a list of integers
and just implement that
and it's really it's a really simple
path to write that and you're not going
to mess it up
um and i think that that's going to just
get us out of a lot of the problems that
we're having on top of our existing
formats
um especially since in this in this
format in particular we're kind of
trading
a little bit of the compactness of cbor
for just ease of implementation
um and resiliency to different
implementations and partial
implementations in particular
um you know z z like you know i love it
and i'm gonna keep working on it for
probably
a number of years before it'll be usable
but um
it is like not uh resilient to partial
implementations
you know there's a million little uh
compression algorithms that you have to
implement
um but yeah i mean this is like kind of
a big departure from
where we've been going which is like
dead sea board never see more new subor
and to be clear like we can't get rid of
it like the file coin chain is in it
in itlb we have to support things as
long as people link to them so we're
going to be dealing with it
in the problems forever but we at least
need to be
have something we can point at and say
like like this is the the right path and
this is making the trade-offs that we
think are like actually the right ones
um and for some of the stuff like
folker's building around the wason
read-only codex like he needs an
intermediary binary format to move the
data model back and forth
and implementing all of dead seabor is
probably like much less attractive
for that interchange format um than
something like this where it would be a
lot
easier to implement in different host
languages for these readable awesome
products so
um yeah yeah if people have a chance
they can check out the spec or just wait
until
uh folker and i finish up the floats
stuff
but yeah i mean thoughts and comments
and any
so i've been thinking about this quite a
bit with my work in that did
specification
and in particular like the challenges of
converting from seaboard to json and not
just dagsebor but
cbor and how do you just i think uh
uh numbers and date timestamp is
actually like really hard
to actually to to do and so i've
recently actually
for this i have a deliverable for
tonight
to actually to get like i mentioned last
week to get the seabor
specification for dids into the
specification otherwise it's being
threatened to pull it and i'm actually
using uh cddl not sure if you guys are
familiar with concise data definition
language
as and it also is basically it really is
an abstract data model
and it really is like more of an
interface data language
than it is a library and where you
explicitly state the the abstract
structure
of the data and as either objects or
maps or
um numbers or floats and
also in in seaboard there's actually
quite a bit of
tags to let you know like what encoding
this should transfer into
if it's basically binary but it's
prepended with a tag 21 or
23 it's supposed to basically convert
into adjacent objects
being hexadecimal and uh and so i feel
your pain and i think it's uh
being but i'm really liking cdl as being
explicitly as possible
in order to make sure the the ease of
conversion
between cyborg and jason is
backwards compatible it's completely
round tripping and i've been doing a lot
of testing
all weekend actually to make sure that
all the stuff we have
in the specification it's mostly json
centric
because they want it to be readable but
a lot of the seaboard stuff
isn't very readable it's machine
[Music]
processable
and but using this abstract language
approach basically it's a a structure
and it basically it is this in c boards
this and json it doesn't matter as long
as you explicitly state it
in uh cddl and everything from
maps arrays to uh it's very
expressive and even allows a lot of
regular expressions for timestamp
information for instance and uh i had to
brush up on my skills and
of regular expressions in order to get
it to fully work
it would be interesting to actually have
a
a multi-codec for cddl which is
basically
the explicit abstract data model uh
as basically like an embedded almost
like an at context for json but
basically like
at cddl that allows you to say and this
is the structure
explicitly of the this object of
of things that are actually in it and
here's where it could be binary here's
where how many
members an array it could have here's
the either regular expressions
um and even uh tag information you
actually can put in that this needs to
be
this data has to be in uh binary
prepended with a tag
23 for hexadecimal and it's
it's completely binary as far as the
representation
of the the semantics and the structure
in the syntax
i can see how cvvl would be really nice
in a spec
um but i i'm just
in terms of like using existing
formats for
these content addressing cases like
unless that format happened to and i
haven't seen the format do this yet
but unless the format happened to say
okay hash consistent representations
are the most important thing and we have
not made any trade-offs in the other
direction
like it's just it's hard for me to see
how we we end up not being in the same
situation no matter what the format is
where we're
we're we're not really describing a
protocol as much as we are
saying you have to use this library
well i think this is uh in between which
is it's not a fully fledged library
it is very uh concise interface
declaration of the the
objects that you're dealing with and i
think um without it being like
like the full like again like you
basically like in
seabor you prepend it with a like tag
and it basically it hints
at as far as what the expanded
string interpretation and interpolation
might be in it
in other languages other representation
other core representation models
i feel like the point o with all of
these specs
it's this catch-up thing that we're
doing where
we add on we on the you know with the
spec
plus content addressing and it's always
that additional bit that
where it just breaks down because none
of these things are designed for that
none of these spec
processors care about content addressing
and consistency in that and so
when we tack it on the end we're the
ones that are accepting compromise
um and there's always these compromises
involved and and there's nothing we can
do about it because we're not
connected to the spec process and the
spec processor doesn't care about our
use case
yet um so it's
we're sort of trapped when it comes to
dealing with interacting with any of
these specs
i don't think that we really understood
how important
prioritizing that hash consistency was
until you know later on after we had
already kind of wrangled on top of these
formats like
um it's not like a trait like we can't
really make trade-offs in the other
direction
like you know even when you know we're
just mapping stuff on top of a format
it's like if you have all these
ways in which you can still get out of
it then it's it's not actually doing the
job that we wanted to do
i'm still um
a little bit shocked at digging into
protobuf
just how bad it is at this because
dagpb has it's got literally two
data types that's all it cares about in
the whole format
when it comes to the binary
representation and it still can't do
them consistently
and this spec is just it doesn't care
about it it just doesn't care about this
case and so
no no it cares about the opposite thing
like it it really
values the flexibility of the format
like the fact that you can extend it and
continue to add things to it later
without breaking the old schema is a
feature not above like like
they have a design this is in the other
direction for us but this
but this is a format with schemas this
is a format with schemas built in
it's not like cbore you define a schemer
ahead and you put
order field orders and you and you
define data types ahead of time
and yet it's still terrible for us
but yeah
okay um
i have one there's a 100 item on
but i don't know who edit this item so
someone added um select this exposure in
lotus abr
api danger of non-path incomplete
selectors
um whoever added it please i did
that i did uh yeah so i want to talk
about this really quickly
it came up today uh it was asked like
uh where are partial videos of falcoin
to which hannah jumped and like well i'm
just going to add
um to add
a simple representation was selected
into the api and you can submit your
entire selector like ss
and we'll just try to try to go with it
um the problem with that is the
following uh
when originally i was looking into how
to implement all of this
it became pretty quickly clear that
we need to only allow supplement
only allows somebody to supply a path
that terminates to a single thing
because if you
because the entire falcon transaction is
essentially allowing for one and one
selector only and nothing else
so you are asking the other side to
send you something starting from one
root
and this something number one is to be a
complete graph so you cannot like
skip stuff in your selector and
additionally the output of this
sub graph also needs to be
essentially one thing because otherwise
like you retrieved it and what do you do
with it after that
no no it's some sort of dag or something
like this which you can just
give back and say like okay you asked me
for this sub
pass i'm actually going to like take
this
pass selector i'm going to ask for this
selector plus full recursion from the
other side they're going to give it to
me i'm going to run the selector again
find out where is the subroute that you
asked for and then i'm going to give you
this feedback either as a car file or as
uh
as direct output yes michael go ahead no
well that's not necessarily true so like
the use case that we have for paths and
why we're looking at adding paths
in was um the lotus retrieval command
wasn't just um give me these blocks it
was actually like give me this file at
this path
and so it definitely did need to be one
whole thing that was just
sent into one file that you would then
output um
but we have cases like um like what
chris is building now
for uh js graph sync is going to hook up
over an rpc interface
to some lotus client um and then that's
going to be doing graph sync requests
retrieval requests and what's going to
come out of that is actually the raw
blocks from the retrieval request
so it's actually fine in that case if
you give it a selector
and you're selecting a bunch of stuff in
in various different files that don't
necessarily like concat
together or become one semantic
representation like it can actually work
with like the raw graph
retrieval data from the selector um yeah
yeah but it needs to be of number one
needs to be a full graph number two
yes if it if it does stream out the
blocks directly that's fine
if it doesn't then it goes into this
entire
trouble of uh we basically now
have a sub um
i'm trying to find the word if i
understand this correctly we basically
have a sub
store per retrieval which is then
garbage collected
when the retrieval ends so you have this
entire like
you need to basically keep holding the
dag before it goes away while you're
returning
and if the selector is not
you know not not complete then how do
you even hold it
so i i said this like a half a dozen
times during the design and
implementation of this that
it should not keep a buffer around it
needs to require deterministic ordering
and like and that just got ignored and
they kept this buffer around and now we
don't know if we actually
have deterministic ordering between the
client and server because nobody ever
errors and they keep the whole [ __ ]
thing around
so now we're in this position where it's
like oh yeah we have to keep the entire
retrieval around
in order to do this it's just anyway um
yeah like that that's just a bug like in
my opinion like it's just about like we
just shouldn't allow indeterministic
um graphic replies like if you if you
give me the blocks out of order from
what i'm expecting from
my local interpretation of the selection
then i'm gonna give you an error i'm
gonna throw
um and that's how we should solve the
buffering issue
um the other issue though is like um i i
saw this
fly by but i think that i jumped a
little too quickly to thinking that
this was like um connecting the
retrieval protocol to something
the rpc interface for this and the cli
for this
do they concatenate like the raw data
that comes back into a file
automatically
or do they have some mechanism
to actually give you block data from the
retrieval request
uh the mechanism is you ask for
car file okay
okay that's totally acceptable um and
that
sort of maybe solves some of the
buffering stuff but i'm not sure
um yeah
i'm not even saying that uh what hannah
is proposing is wrong i just want to
like
highlight that there are pitfalls in
just allowing any kind of selector
because like
graphing itself is not prepared for that
i mean so selectors have a bunch of
issues that we
should take more seriously um like
potential dos vectors
but in the file coin retrieval market we
don't need to be too worried about that
because you have to pay for them so
um that's not a great dos factor if you
have to pay money to
exploit it um it's usually how you fix
dos vectors so
um i'm not i can't think of anything to
be worried about right now maybe eric
does though um
from my perspective it's not that much
about um
it's not that much about attacks it's
more about
well you let me use this thing but it
doesn't work make it work for me now
and it like would not be able to work
on a you know an architectural level so
that
that's basically what what my concern is
that we're exposing something that's
super generic
over something that's super specialized
which is being the graphing calculator
so that's basically why i'm like are we
sure we want to do this
well the graphing stuff in the retrieval
market is already
pretty open and because it does allow
you to give it a new selector so even if
we didn't add this to
filecoin like somebody could write a
client and talk to the network and
and send them whatever the hell they
want right yes but nobody wants to do
that for oh yes it is
yeah yeah but like i mean if
like obviously like that's not ideal but
like if that's not ideal because it's
really hard to write that then it
actually makes a lot of sense to add
this feature into lotus so that you can
just give it whatever
you would without writing a custom
client i mean we're not we're not
blocking anything
we're actually just opening up um in our
client what is already available in the
networking
protocol
eric do you have thoughts
no no because because we were making
different faces while we were talking
about selectors over you know so
so and so forth so i i'm just checking
this out um
one of the things michael said about
like yes the traversal order should
be entirely deterministic and protocols
should heart
should halt immediately and hard when
things come in an unexpected order this
is
true
like the thing is that i've i've i've
been down this road like i've played
this game before
and and there is no satisfactory answer
for how large that buffer should be
so like the answer is to not do it and
to know that you're
that you're stable and and then like the
moment that somebody doesn't do this
correctly they get an error and they
don't try to ship that code
is is there a defined order uh
said blocks in graph sync since we're
kind of talking about this right i don't
recall reading about that the order is
defined
as the order that the selectors
yield them to you and the order that
selectors yield things to you is defined
by the iteration order of the data
and the iteration order of the data is
defined to be
whatever the heck it is keep it stable
it's the encoded order um which
in some codecs we enforce in some we
don't but whatever was encoded even if
it was encoded bad is what you should do
exactly yep all right and so
if so that means then
that a grassy responder if
as it's traversing the graph in the
correct order
if one block gets hung up it just stops
the whole
protocol is that correct
yes descending over something else that
multiplexes them in a random order
yeah ideally yes because like you have
to realize that
the problem if you allow a small
variation in order
that variation in order very quickly is
now just a variation in link order which
means that like the
the subsequent selection of the sub
graphs
is out of order which means that you
have to buffer
that entire sub selection often in order
to
unless you have like a con current
selection
uh validator which is like nobody's
written
then then you uh you very much like then
you have to buffer that around
so it's not like we can say like oh no
keep keep a few blocks around it's like
oh no like this is going to very quickly
turn into
i i'm i'm buffering entire sub tags of
whatever length and eventually that link
gets too big when somebody has a bug
but nobody notices it until they have a
really big graph that they're running
over this bug
which is why no [ __ ] this error right
away
when somebody does the wrong order so
they know that they have a bug and then
we don't ship it
well i mean you hear all the rationale
you're the one thing i'd say i think one
of the
things about grasslands is supposed to
be like a high performance
protocol where bitswap isn't at least
from peer-to-peer so he's have
you know requested a responder like
supposed to go really fast or good swap
is limited
and so this could impact that i would
say
goal of graph sync in terms of limiting
performance
given the speed of the box store you may
be throttling things because you don't
have
you have some blocks beyond little box
see if they're still coming out of store
i mean if you're saturating the network
with what you've got from
disc then i'm impressed um
but it's pretty fast
yeah and and frankly like it's it's not
i mean look
it's not performant to buffer a ton of
data and memory
like it for an indefinite amount of time
without you seeing it
what do you think about it yeah it this
is helpful information especially since
i'm implementing it
um exactly but it's kind of surprising
too because i'll noodle on a bit more
if they continue down this and they ship
it then we're going to have to like
reproduce this bug everywhere else just
like we're going to have to reproduce
all these map bugs
yeah um
if somebody wants to increase the
throughput of these data pipelines
then like big picture the the point of
selectors and how graph sync is supposed
to go fast is
you request many blocks all at once in
one query
and then you stream them back with this
one
question being answered however many
blocks it is that is the answer
and so this does remove round trip times
right you don't
need a ton of acknowledgement to fly
back like
the sender can just keep streaming
blocks back and they should do that
at whatever rate they can to saturate
the pipe
that's fine and at some point if the
recipient of all this response data
starts getting things in totally the
wrong order
i'm assuming we're using tcp so this
just shouldn't happen if we're not using
tcp
then something at the transport layer
should be responsible for restitching
this ordering as fast as possible and
like
should take care of it before we worry
about it at the protocol
um and yeah so then if the recipient
starts getting these chunks streamed in
totally incorrect order then they should
send a
like a hard knack and like close this
connection because
the the far side is just not behaving
correctly at all and they appear to be
trying to waste my memory
trying to make me hold on to stuff that
i can't verify
um i think trying to increase the
throughput of this should pretty much
just focus on trying to increase the
throughput at the transport level
like i don't think there's
any reason to allow whole blocks to be
reassociated in radically different
orders unless like
uh yeah i don't see why that would be
really necessary
unless you're like did somebody add an
https 4000 or whatever version google is
up to now where it like makes more
connections and we're streaming whole
different blocks on them for reasons
so go faster like yeah i think the thing
i'm thinking about is let's see
a graph that has some fairly large
blocks and some very small blocks
and my responder basically realizes oh
there's like
20 child blocks on this one i'm going to
issue async requests for all of them and
start shipping them over as soon as they
come back
and just so happens the first block in
this kind of order is the big one
that means all the other like 19 blocks
are super small
i can't send over yet until i read the
big one and so that's
you know so i think that's kind of like
a bummer in terms of
performance and then i think related to
that is
um you know but there's something that
you're doing if you
do not have yourself all of these blocks
at all
like you're doing sub requests on this
person's behalf
and if so should you be doing that
because i don't know
let me say something i think there is a
disconnect
chris seems to be under the
under the idea that graph sync is this
uh
super parallel protocol whereas graph
sync
is designed explicitly to be serial
and to basically just walk the graph
super efficiently
but not walk the graph in parallel
efficiently at all
and in fact query are building something
like that because
graphing doesn't work with them and uh
bitswap doesn't work for them but
bitswap is actually more performant
graph sync as implemented as and as
designed
if you have any cache date if you have
any cache date
like bitswap can can beat it just
because you're
you're doing you're asking for less
things you need less things
um crash sync isn't really designed for
that um
like if you already have any of the
blocks like it's all your own manual
work to figure that out
and then you're still doing a bunch of
round trips for sub queries for that too
you can tell the graph think it has a
packet for like
tell me these hashes that i already have
don't send me these
yeah like the issue is that you don't
so you can't say here's everything in
the block store like that'd be too big
and
you often don't know until you're
traversing which
what are the relevant cids that you
already had around yeah
you can say subsections like building
out from where you started
but then if you've got a layer that you
don't know about and then it happens
that like the grandchildren of that you
do have already
then you can't meaningfully declare that
this is true yeah yeah
and like i think that the way that we we
always imagine that people might do that
is that they were just doing multiple
queries like they would do the shout out
like you were talking about they would
do the shallow query and then a couple
parallel queries and stuff um and then
if you have them in the same graphing
channel you do get the deduplication of
the blocks coming out but um
but yeah um and and in falcon you cannot
do any of this because there is only one
connection because it is predicated on
payment so you cannot do anything yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah i mean
there's a lot of considerations here and
performance is not the top one
in the retrieval market um i think
graphsync
has other performance requirements for
other use cases other than retrieval
that
that make people want to make it faster
but retrievals are are not going to be
people are going to be blocking on on
chain access like
they're not they're not going to be
performance bound on these on these
parallelism issues
peter what's the other protocol you said
people like that they don't like bitswap
or graphsync do you have a link to it
uh no i just know that they're working
on it uh query io
it's the the company that brandon is
working at
uh they're like supposedly finishing it
up and
going to publish it the way they
move blocks between their shards of
their
like they they have semi-ipfs gateways
i don't know if they've done anything
new but to do a quick review of what i
know they've done historically that
they've been happy with
um they made like a two-phase protocol
where they would
build manifests of all the structure and
size of the data
and then send those around first and
then stream
all the data later and that's exactly
what i was just thinking we should do
okay that works really well if you know
the use case um it's hard to do
generically
um like you just don't know how big that
diff is going to be and
where the information is it's like the
thing where
windows file copies now they give you
the
spinny progress bar for a while while
they say calculating size
but then after that the progress bar is
predictable and people like that
um yeah is it faster actually no it's
almost guaranteed to be slower
but like very
saturated experience yeah yeah and
there's i mean i have to think about
this i mean actually this is
this blot this ordering i need to think
about it for my use case
um something like this manifest or
streaming manifest with string blocks on
top of it
may be a better fit for what i need but
okay
i think that we just need a lot more
time with different use cases and
protocols to understand what
what something generic would need to
look like like i'm i'm not really happy
with like any of the replication
protocols to be honest and i've even
written a couple
like different ones um and all of them
work really well in
particular use cases but not generically
and the more that i dig into dagdy being
like what you actually want to do when
you replicate it gets a little bit too
complicated for something generic
um particularly when you you get into
like
i want to keep around parts of this
graph by reference but
i don't actually want to move the data
around like those kinds of decisions get
like really really difficult
to embed in generic interfaces
um but anyway uh we're we're at time
so we should yeah we so um i need
everybody
uh who who who who works for me
uh to stick around uh because we have to
do some planning
uh at the end of the call okay then
no i got one more thing to tack on to
the end yeah okay the
so this manifest discussion that we were
just having um
i think it would be really cool if we
could extract
some maybe mild convention or loose
specification for that sort of thing
it seems to me like it would be totally
reasonable to
make some function which is roughly give
me your
block store and your starting hash and a
selector
and i will apply this function and it
will give me
a manifest um i don't think we've
specified that
yet it's something that you can pretty
easily construct but like oh why not
make it standard
that would be interesting that would be
really interesting yeah because you
could just yeah then you could just
modify the shape of it to match
different use cases
yeah that could be really interesting
yeah then we could start having like
maybe we can just even take whatever the
query people have done and just be like
this is a standard now they've probably
done it approximately correctly i assume
and i mean it would probably end up
driving some new
selectors as well like we would identify
some selectors that we don't have and
some syntax we don't have
that you want when you do things like
that
all right thanks uh so yeah thank
everyone and
see you all next week bye